.TH VDOREGENERATEGEOMETRY 8 "2023-04-14" "Red Hat" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vdoregenerategeometry \- regenerate a VDO whose first few blocks have been wiped
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vdoregenerategeometry
.RI [ options... ]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vdoregenerategeometry
will attempt to regenerate the geometry block of a VDO device in the event that
the beginning of the backing store was wiped. This tool will fail if enough of
the device was wiped that the VDO super block was also erased, or if there are
multiple valid super block candidates on the volume.
.PP
.I filename
must be the path of the VDODataLV as described in \fBlvmvdo\fP(7).
Since \fBlvchange\fP(8) will only mount that as read-only, a writable version
of that device must be manually created, as shown in the example below.
.PP
If the super block location is known, or to select one of the candidate
super blocks in the event that multiple candidates were found, the
.B \-\-offset
option can be used to specify the location (in bytes) of the
super block on the backing store.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-offset
Specify the location (in bytes) of the super block.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the version of vdoregenerategeometry.
.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# lvchange -ay vdo1/vdo0pool_vdata
# dmsetup table vdo1-vdo0pool_vdata > vdata.table
# lvchange -an vdo1/vdo0pool_vdata
# dmsetup create vdo1-vdo0pool_vdata --table "`cat vdata.table`"
# vdoregenerategeometry /dev/mapper/vdo1-vdo0pool_vdata
# dmsetup remove vdo1-vdo0pool_vdata
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvmvdo (7),
.BR lvchange (8),
.BR dmsetup (8)
