.TH VDOFORMAT 8 "2017-09-12" "Red Hat" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
vdoformat \- format a VDO device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vdoformat
.RI [ options... ]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vdoformat
formats the file named by
.I filename
as a VDO device. This is analogous to low-level device formatting.
The device will not be formatted if it already contains a VDO, unless
the --force flag is used.
.PP
.B vdoformat
can also modify some of the formatting parameters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-format
Format the block device, even if there is already a VDO formatted thereupon.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-logical\-size=\fIsize\fP
Set the logical (provisioned) size of the VDO device to \fIsize\fP.
A size suffix of K for kilobytes, M for megabytes, G for
gigabytes, T for terabytes, or P for petabytes is optional. The
default unit is megabytes.
.TP
.B \-\-slab\-bits=\fIbits\fP
Specify the slab size in bits. The maximum size is 23, and the
default is 19.
.TP
.B \-\-uds\-checkpoint\-frequency=\fIfrequency\fP
Specify the frequency of checkpoints. The default is never.
.TP
.B \-\-uds\-memory\-size=\fIgigabytes\fP
Specify the amount of memory, in gigabytes, to devote to the
index. Accepted options are .25, .5, .75, and all positive
integers.
.TP
.B \-\-uds\-sparse
Specify whether or not to use a sparse index.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Describe what is being formatted and with what parameters.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the version of vdoformat.
.
.\" .SH EXAMPLES
.\" .SH NOTES
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vdo (8).
